Do you really still need a niche in
2026?
>> That's the question.
>> Niching down is actually really
important.
>> I don't think you need to find a niche.
I think your niche is that you are that
human being.
>> Anybody who's this specific with their
niche knows that they're going to be
able to make a couple sales.
>> If you go and choose a niche, that's
going to be something that's way too
broad and you're going to get lost in I
would rather pay a really small creator
that is very specific to my niche than a
huge creator, but it's kind of all over
the place.
>> You'll never make serious money if you
can't pick a niche and stick with it.
>> But now you've niched down so far,
you've boxed yourself in so much that
all of your content now needs to fit
into one tiny category. So what now?
>> My answer might surprise you. But before
we talk too much about whether or not
you currently need a niche, it's
important to understand what the heck
even is a niche and how did we get to
the point where this conversation has
become such a heated debate. There are
lots of different definitions for the
word niche and even multiple ways of
saying it. Some people say niche, some
people say niche, but I specifically
define niche as the who and the what.
the demographic or subgroup within a
population that you are going to be
posting for and the specific topic that
you are going to be posting about. The
year is 2010. There's a social media app
that is blowing up in popularity called
Bourbon. Bourbon was a social media app
that was just for, you guessed it,
bourbon drinkers. It was kind of like
Yelp, but specifically for people who
were avid fans of the alcoholic beverage
Bourbon. And so bourbon drinkers could
talk about the local pubs and bars in
their area. They could check in, add
photos, add comments, use different
filters on their pictures of their
bourbon and just generally use it as a
social media platform specifically for
this one community. Now, you probably
haven't heard of Bourbon unless you've
heard me speak on stage or you've heard
me tell this story before, but Bourbon
was super popular within its niche
community. It was super popular within
the community of bourbon drinkers. And
bourbon because of that continued to
grow. It continued to evolve. It
continued to forget about or remove the
features that people weren't really
using and continued to double down and
expand upon the features that people
were using like the ability to post
photos and comment on each other's
photos and add special filters to the
pictures that people were posting. And
eventually bourbon grew and expanded to
the point that they realized we have a
real gold mine on our hand. This can be
a social media app that's not just for
bourbon drinkers, but for people all
over the world. And so Bourbon rebranded
and became Instagram. That's not
hyperbole. That's not a joke. That is a
true story. Instagram, the platform that
now has 3 billion monthly active users,
got its start in a super niched way. And
it's because of that super clear niche
that it was able to build raving fans
early on. And because of those raving
fans, it was able to figure out what its
strengths were, what its weaknesses
were, what it could double down on, and
what it could forget about. And so it
could eventually change and rebrand and
grow and evolve, and less than 3 years
later, become the billiondoll business
that Meta purchased. So truly, since the
dawn of Instagram, or maybe I should say
bourbon, niche has been key. But
Instagram isn't the only platform to get
started with a super clear niche. Some
other notable companies that you may
have heard of that got started with a
specific niche are Amazon, who got its
start as an online used book resale
website. Facebook got its start as a
social network specifically for Harvard
students. Nobody else. Airbnb got its
start as a rental platform for air
mattresses. That's where Air and Airbnb
comes from, but specifically for
business conferences. So, if you were
going to a business conference, you
could stay on someone's air mattress in
their apartment and rent that out. eBay
got its start as a platform to sell
collectibles, specifically Pez
dispensers. Yes, these things. I could
keep going, but I'll stop because
contrary to some of these really big
businesses, a lot of early influencers
and creators didn't really have a niche.
In the early days of the internet, there
were mom bloggers, there were
influencers, there were people who were
gaining a lot of popularity without one
specific thing that they were focused
on. For example, there was Perez Hilton
who didn't really have a clear niche and
just kind of talked about anything that
was going on in the tabloids, drama,
chaos, anything. There was Tila Tequila,
who was a Facebook influencer who was
pretty much just famous for being
famous. She posted about whatever she
wanted to, everything in her lifestyle,
every part of her personality, and
that's why people became fans of hers. I
know that as a kid, I followed Fred on
YouTube, who was a character. He didn't
have one specific thing in all of his
videos. He didn't make content about one
specific topic. He was just kind of a
funny character who posted on YouTube.
And of course, maybe the most famous
example of all is Kim Kardashian, who
yes, might have initially became famous
for one specific thing, if you know what
I'm talking about. But generally, she
became popular for her personality. And
the Keeping Up with the Kardashians
show, which premiered in 2007, really
just followed her and her family through
all the different things that they did
in their life, documenting their entire
lifestyle without a clear value
proposition or unique niche or lane that
they were in. But in March of 2016, that
changed forever when Instagram
introduced their first algorithm. And
the job of the algorithm, to define it
loosely, is to show people the kind of
content that they would be interested
in. And in order for Instagram or any
algorithm to determine what kind of
content you would be interested in
watching, it has to categorize content.
It has to differentiate between NASCAR
and nail texts. And so this was the dawn
of the niche era within social media.
Essentially, if you wanted to grow, you
needed to have a niche. And that's
largely how things have stayed for the
last 10 years. For the last 10 years,
having a clear niche has been essential
for three key reasons. Number one, we
kind of already talked about it, the
algorithm. When you have a clear niche
or when you consistently post about one
topic over and over again, the algorithm
can learn what that topic is and it can
better categorize your posts. thus
allowing you to show up in the feeds of
people who would actually be interested
in seeing your posts. Number two, it
provides clarity for you. You now know
what to post about. While I know there
might be some people watching and
listening today who feel like having a
niche is going to be too constricting or
niching down is going to pigeon hole
themselves and they're not going to be
able to talk about all the different
interesting things that they're
interested in. But I know for a lot of
other people having a niche provides
clarity. It's kind of like the paradox
of choice. When you open up an entire
wardrobe and you have hundreds of
different shirts and pants and
combinations you can wear, sometimes
people get analysis paralysis and they
can't make a decision because they're
presented with too many options.
Instead, when you limit those options or
in social media's case, you limit the
different things you could post about to
just your niche or maybe your niche and
a couple other little things, it makes
posting much easier for you. It gives
you clarity as to what you can and
should post about each day. And third,
probably most importantly, it provides
clarity for your potential followers. In
the very, very early days of social
media in the internet, we followed
people because we thought their
personality was interesting and unique.
But the reality is there were so few
people posting online regularly. Pre20,
especially compared to nowadays, that
personality stood out much easier. If
you were a mom blogger, that was
revolutionary. There weren't very many
mom bloggers at the time. And so even if
you didn't have a crazy personality,
just by simply posting about your life
without a niche, people would be willing
to follow you because you were unique.
It was revolutionary. It was new. But
now there are hundreds of thousands,
probably millions of mom bloggers,
millions of moms posting about being a
mom and posting about their lifestyle on
Instagram. And so it's less novel, it's
less unique, and it's less worth
following. Nowadays, and really for the
last 10 years, we follow people because
we're interested in their niche. We
follow people because we say, "Oh, hey,
they can teach me something. They can
create content we're interested in." In
fact, even just recently, Many Chat put
out a creator report where they pulled
people on a variety of things, including
why they follow. And according to said
report, by far the number one reason
even to this day that we say we follow
someone is they post content I find
consistently useful or entertaining. And
I think there's one key word there,
consistently. They are consistently
posting something that I am interested
in. And if you are posting about all of
your different interests and passions
and hobbies, it's very unlikely that
someone is going to be interested in all
seven of those topics. And if they're
only interested in one or two, then when
you post about the other five or six,
you're not going to get very much
engagement and a lot of your followers
are going to be left in the shadows. Are
you ready to take your business
marketing to the next level? Meet Brevo,
the all-in-one marketing and CRM
platform built to help you connect with
customers, boost engagement, and grow
your business smarter. With Brevo, you
can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place. Nurture leads
with their built-in CRM. Reach your
audience through email and SMS and keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to help you
improve your strategy in real time. It's
like having a marketing expert on your
team 24/7. And of course, Brevo offers
advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AIdriven
personalization. Everything you need to
create multi-channel campaigns that hit
the mark every single time. Get started
for free today or use code tribe 50 to
save 50% on starter and standard plans
for the first 3 months of the annual
subscription. Just head to
www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. So, like I said, for the
last 10 years or so since Instagram
introduced their first algorithm, that's
how things have pretty much progressed.
That's why every social media expert for
the last decade has been preaching about
the importance of niche. But things have
changed. Number one, the Tik
Tockification of social media has
occurred. Just like in 2016, Instagram
introducing their algorithm
revolutionized social media. Tik Tok
introducing their algorithm in 2019
revolutionized social media all over
again. But it's just taken a few years
for all of the other social media apps
to catch up. And essentially what the
Tik Tockification of social media means
is that the algorithm is much faster
than ever before. And the algorithm now
cares about what are you immediately
interested in? Basically today or this
hour or within the last few minutes,
what are you most interested in? What
are you most paying attention to? And
can we show you posts relating to that?
rather than the way the Instagram
algorithm has functioned for the last
decade, which is what topics are you
generally interested in. Who have you
followed in the past and how can that
help us predict what things you would be
interested in today? For example, for
the last decade, if on Instagram I have
been following people who make cooking
videos, I've been following people
specifically in the high protein niche
or in the meal prepping niche within
cooking. Well, then Instagram's
algorithm is going to think, "Okay,
Brock wants more cooking videos," and
it's going to continue to show me posts
from other people who make meal prep,
high protein cooking videos. But then,
if on one specific day I'm hyperfixated
on something, let's say it is the
Formula 1 World Championship and I'm
watching a bunch of videos and I'm
consuming a bunch of content about that
for the last 10 years, the Instagram
algorithm hasn't really adapted very
quickly. It's still going to keep
showing me food content even though I'm
telling it today, right now, I'm
interested in Formula 1. What Tik Tok
said is we're going to care a lot less
about who you've followed, even who
you've followed recently, and we're
going to prioritize the content that
you've engaged with recently. So the Tik
Tok algorithm can say, "Yeah, Brock, you
have been following food creators for
the last 10 years, but today you're
interested in the Formula 1 World
Championship." And so we're going to
show you more videos relating to that.
And that's why Tik Tok blew up in 2020
and has stuck around ever since. That is
also why Instagram, Facebook, YouTube,
and all these other platforms have
quickly tick-tockified their own
algorithms to prioritize this same thing
to prioritize speed and what you are
interested in today rather than who you
followed and what preferences you've
shown in the past. And the way that this
has impacted niche is pretty drastic.
Now, if you create content that people
would be interested in, the algorithms
theoretically should show it to the
people who would be interested in it.
even if that content is different than
what you normally post. For example, if
all of my posts are about rock climbing
tips for women in their 40s who are
getting into rock climbing and I make
one specific post about Stranger Things
and the different hairstyles in the
Stranger Things finale and how people
achieve those different hairstyles, well
then the algorithm will show it to
people who are interested in Stranger
Things and who are specifically
interested in the hair of the8s in
Stranger Things. So, in a pretty major
way, the Tik Tockification of social
media has made having a consistent niche
far less important. Something that I'm
trying not to do in 2026 is to use the
term small business. Because let's be
real, there's nothing small about the
business that you are building. The
number of different hats that you have
to wear is not small. The decisions that
you have to make on a daily basis are
not small. And the impact that you're
making on yourself, your family, your
customers, and possibly the entire world
is not small either. And for so many
business owners, the number of different
platforms that you have to learn to use
is also not small. But thanks to
Shopify, it can be because Shopify is
the e-commerce platform that has all the
tools you need in one place. Because
Shopify itself used to be a quote
unquote small business. Shopify's point
of sales system is a unified command
center for your retail business. It
brings together in-person and online
operations with up to 1,00 locations,
which makes your customers lives easier
by making shopping convenient. Endless
aisle, ship to customer, buy online,
pick up in store, all made simpler so
that customers can shop the way they
want, and staff has tools to close the
sale every time. But let's face it,
acquiring new customers is expensive.
With Shopify POSOS, you can keep
customers coming back with personalized
experiences and first-party data which
gives your marketing team a competitive
edge. In fact, it's proven, and you
know, I love me some numbers. Based on a
report from EY, businesses on Shopify
POSOS see real results like 22% better
total cost of ownership and benefits
equivalent to an 8.9% uplift in sales on
average relative to the markets that
surveyed. Get all of the big stuff for
your small business right with Shopify.
Sign up for your $1 per month trial and
start selling on Shopify today at
shopify.com/tribe.
Go to shopify.com/tribe.
Again, that's shopify.com/tribe.
The second major thing that's changed in
the last 10 years is that many creators
and many consumers have become burnt out
over just hearing about the same topic
over and over and over again. I think
about even some of the biggest creators
in the world who have a specific niche
like Marquez Brownley MKBHD who pretty
much exclusively posts tech reviews.
There's a pretty good chance you've seen
one of his videos before. I know I've
watched quite a few of them. He's a
great storyteller. He's a great content
creator. And I am in no way saying that
his channel is dying. He's got over 20
million subscribers and he's continuing
to grow. However, I must admit even
myself personally, and maybe this
applies to you as well. I don't
consistently watch every single thing
that he uploads every single week. And
if you do, if you do watch every single
video that he puts out every single
week, my guess is that you haven't been
doing that for years. My guess is that
95 to 99% of his audience has not been
watching every single upload for more
than a few months. And that's just the
reality of human nature. Both as a
creator and as a consumer, we crave
variety. We crave the different things
that we are interested in, right? We're
all a unique butterfly with all of these
different interests and passions and
hobbies. And so it makes sense that many
creators struggle to stick to a niche
and many consumers struggle to just
consistently consume one person's
content over and over and over again
with some exceptions of course. So with
all this being said, my answer, no. You
do not need a niche to grow on social
media in 2026. But and there's a pretty
big butt and I cannot lie. While you do
not need a niche in general, I do
believe that it is necessary for the
following three things. Number one,
having a niche is still essential if you
want loyal followers, which is, I think,
something that we all want. Getting a
bunch of followers is cool, but if you
can't get those followers to continually
come back to your posts, if you can't
get those followers to become customers
every time, to sign up for everything
that you put out, and to engage with
everything that you create, then having
a large number of followers is really
not that impressive. Essentially, what
I'm talking about here is super fans.
And there's a great book by my good
friend Pat Flynn called Superfans that
talks more about this topic. But one of
the core principles of building super
fans is having a clear demographic or
having a clear niche or having a clear
problem that you can solve for a group
of people. That's what allows you to be
known. That's what allows them to flock
to you, recommend you to their friends,
and become not just followers, but super
fans of you or your brand. Speaking of
brand, the second thing that having a
niche is essential for is a brand.
Whether your brand is your business or
your personal brand, brands often times
have cornerstones or to use another
architecture analogy, they have pillars.
They have certain things that are not
going to change, certain things that
people can count on and keep coming back
for. If you want an entire episode about
personal branding, I did that a few
weeks ago and I think it's super
valuable, a super underrated episode.
So, I'll link that up somewhere so you
can go check out that. But in order to
have a brand, I talk about it quite a
bit in that episode, a niche is key. And
then the third and final circumstance
where having a niche would be essential
is having an actual business. Like we
talked about at the beginning of today's
episode, pretty much every big business
that you can think of in the world got
its start with a clear niche. I like to
think of it kind of like a tree. You
build the trunk first. And I know this
isn't how trees grow, but just stick
with me for a second. You build the
trunk first. You grow the trunk first.
And the trunk is just one singular
thing. It's not branching off in a
million different directions. It's just
one singular clear focus. And then
eventually once it gets big enough, once
you're happy with the size, then it can
branch out. Then it can pivot. Then it
can rebrand. Then it can kind of lean
and grow in different directions. But in
order to be this big beautiful tree
that's reaching people all over the
world, you have to start with that solid
foundation. If you are branching out too
soon, if you're posting about all of
your interests and passions and hobbies
and everything that makes you you in the
early stages, then you're never going to
become known in the first place. And
you're not going to be this big,
beautiful tree. You're going to be this
little tiny bush on the ground. Or even
worse, you're going to be this weed
that's kind of growing out in all
directions, but never truly reaching
your full height and potential. And so
if you're just getting started and you
have no idea what you want to post about
or what you want to be known for online,
knock your socks off. Post about
everything that you're interested in.
But don't expect to grow very much
during that period. Instead, that period
of time is going to be used to discover
what sort of niche you might want to
have, what specific topic you're going
to focus on, what specific demographic
you're going to lean into. If for you
creating content is just an art form,
you never really want to monetize it.
like sure it would be great if you made
some money, but your goal is not to
build a business. Your goal is not to
build uh customers or clientele or
anything like that. You just want to
creatively express yourself, then no,
you don't need a niche post about and
create content about, make videos, and
take photos about whatever you're into
on that particular day and time. My
guess is that's not you. And so that's
why I'm going to ask you to subscribe to
this podcast because every single week I
put out helpful tips to help you grow
your online business, increase your
following or your views or your
engagement on social media, and build
your tribe. Thank you so much for being
here and as always, happy networking.